get ready for a love affair
I love affair with nature see the third
world missing works with much
you
the food wealth method it follows some
very basic natural ecological principles
so that it looks and acts just like a
living breathing ecosystem you see when
you have a a traditional garden what you
find is there are perfect rows of one
type of vegetable and there are a lot of
gaps between those vegetables
now those gaps or bare soil or what I
would call empty niche spaces now in
nature empty new spaces are not
tolerated let's imagine you're on a
pristine rainforest if a big tree fell
down and left a big bare space what you
wouldn't notice is there's and thousands
of seeds just lying dormant ready to
burst into life now if you have a
traditional vegetable gum and you have a
lot of bare spaces nature will not
tolerate that either something will try
to fill those empty spaces now the most
common thing that happens is that weeds
do that job weaves are the ultimate
empty niche space filler if they weren't
they wouldn't be called weeds now the
way that we deal with this you in the
food4wealth method is we don't have
empty nice spaces we're gonna run these
plots at full carrying capacity and what
we also going to do we're gonna build up
a seed supply in the soil we're going to
let some of the plants go to seed so
there's always thousands of seeds lying
dormant in the soil so if you remove a
plan and you do create an empty space
there's something good near to fill the
gap something good to fill that empty
mesh space because if you don't have
something good there then weeds will do
it for
now there's another benefit for having a
garden really plaintiff sickly and
running in full prepare carrying
capacity and that is it's producing a
lot more now because it's producing a
lot more you have to put a little bit
into it as well but I'm not talking
about hard Anthony I'm just talking
about compost what we're gonna try to do
is set up a system so that when you
bring nutrients into your life it kept
them in your system and you put them
into your garden through your composting
system and then you eat them your 8vr
plants and then any waste goes back to
you comments so you're getting a nice
nutrient flow a nice cycling flow now
we're the traditional garden what I
won't be fine is when these empty nice
faces get filled with weeds the first
thing the traditional gardener does is
dig those weeds over now there's a few
problems with doing that what they're
doing is they're taking the dry crusty
structureless soil that's lying on the
top and they're turning it over and
putting it underneath and that soil
underneath has got good structure but
now you're putting on top and it's gonna
dry out and it's gonna lose its
structure the problem was weeds but now
you've created a new problem we created
the problem of having structureless soil
now structureless soil has its own
problems firstly it can't hold water as
well as good structured soil so you're
gonna have to put more water into garden
now the other problem it causes is it
can't pass on the nutrients to the
plants as effectively
so we started out with a weed problem
and now we've got the problem of soil
that doesn't hold water and we've also
got the problem of soil that doesn't
pass on its nutrients so now we have to
add in organic fertilizers now when you
do that you start to kill all the all
the biological life that's in the soil
and that biological life is actually
important to actually build structure so
you'll end up with the ability to get
substance and with this method with the
fruitful wealth method the most
important thing to remember is look
after your soil because if your soil is
well looked after it will look after you
and the way we look after is we don't
touch we've let it lie underneath we
don't dig it we don't turn we want it to
retain that beautiful structure so it
can hold nutrients and pass them under
the plants they can hold water so the
number one rule with this method is No
Deal
the only way we work the soil is we add
layers of compost on the top as a
surface mulch onto bare patches now I
like to get my bare patches covered the
same day if possible I just want to keep
that soil protected I want to keep that
structure this is a really important
part of the process now in the food
world method we're not going to plant in
rows and we're not gonna plant one
single type of a plan into an area we're
gonna mostly just mix everything up
there's a good reason for doing this
firstly it gives you much better pest
protection now pests who eat your crops
usually identify them by sight or smell
now when you've got everything mixed up
it is very hard for the piste to
actually see the specific plant that
they like it just looks like a jumbled
mess and it's impossible for them to
smell it because there's too many
different conflicting smooth
but I have done all the hard work so
that you don't have to look just read
through the step-by-step manual and
follow the every step and if you put in
your garden the way I tell you and you
plant new plants the way I tell you you
will actually get over a few years this
beautiful ecosystem form and you will
learn so much about ecology that you
didn't know just because you're having
an intimate relationship
you